uorsa. 131

53. 20. Ad cautum mcum. That is, to my son
Cato. lt must be recolleeted that it is Cato Major
who speaks. Cicero appears in his own person, in
the first section only of this dialogue, and says that
his opinions on old age he shall express in the
character of Cato.

53 23. Quod centro decuit ab illo mcum.
“ Which last office, in the course of nature, he
should have performed for mine.'’

55. ln the dialogus on friendship, Loelius is the
chief speaker3 whilst eonversing with his two
sons-in-law, Fannius and Seaevola, upon the death
of P. Scipio, and the memorable friendship that
had subsisted between them, he takes occasion, at
their desire, to explain to them the nature and
benefits of true friendship. The eonferenee was
suggested by the situation of the commonwealth at
that period. It was pubhshed soon aller the assas·
sination of Julius Caesar, when many respectable
partizans of that ambitious chief, were indireetly
endeavoring to turn the popular odium upon the
cause and the persons of the conspiratura, by the

· public honors they exhibited to his memory3 a
conduct which they attempted to justify by the
duties of private friendship.

Suc. l. What induced Cicero to write this
treatise.

 

